okay good morning students
uh today we will discuss another topic
of
vlsi system design in previous class we
discussed
we discussed about the first topic of
our vlsi system design vlsi
cmos subsystem design that is
vlsi system design that is uh
basic theory of cmos uh along with uh
some data path operators
this topic uh we covered in our previous
lecture
now in this lecture we will discuss now
in this lecture we will discuss
the second topic now in this lecture we
will discuss the second topic
of this unit that is parity that is
parity generator
that is parity generator circuit so
before starting this topic first we have
to understand the what is the mean of
parity generator what is the mean of
parity generator
uh we can easily understand this topic
by using this
theoretical portion that um parity
generator parity generator is a
sequential circuit parity generator is a
parity generator is a combination
circuit that is used to
uh use to check the parity that is
transmitted
from the transmitter end okay now what
is the parity what is the mean of parity
parity is nothing parity is nothing but
uh some extra
parity is nothing but some extra bit
okay
parity is nothing parity is nothing but
some extra bit parity is nothing but
some extra bit
that is attached with the message signal
and transmitted
towards the receiver when receiver
getting the data when receiver getting
the data stream
so at that time first uh he checked the
first to check the
uh parity bit and accordingly it knows
the
uh knows the condition of message that
it is uh
that um that the number of one in the
data is
uh even cut in in the even
in the even number or it is in the odd
number
okay so first we see the theory of
parity generator
parity generator is a very useful tool
in the information processing
in the digital computer to indicate to
indicate
any presence of error in the bit
information
we already didn't discuss this topic it
is
mainly used to represent it is used to
represent
the the the even and odd condition of
data to the receiver okay second point
is that
external noise and loss of signal
strength second point is that
strength causes loss of data bit
information
while transporting data from one device
to other device
locating inside the computer are
externally okay this one is the second
point
the third point is that the third point
is that
to indicate any error to indicate any
error an extra bit is included with the
message according to the total number of
ones in the set of data which is
called parity we already discussed this
term parity
is nothing but some extra bit that is
attached with the message signal
that is attached with the message signal
to represent the some
to represent the some necessary
information
to the receiver side parity is of two
types parity is of two type
what are these two type one is one
parity is known as even parity one
parity is known as even parity
and another parity is known as odd
parity one parity is known as even
parity and another parity is known as
odd parity
okay when number of one in the even
when the number of one is even so when
the number of one
is even and we are using the even parity
check so
at that time the value of even parity
will be zero
okay if we are if you are if you are
checking if you are checking
yeah the odd parity if you are checking
it by using odd parity
so in the odd parity case if the number
of one is odd
at that time its value will be zero okay
you can understand by using this
sentence
even uh if the number of bit is if the
number of one is even
so in parity in in even parity case it
the bit will be zero in the odd
character in the odd parity case if the
number of
one is one so in the parity bit will be
the zero
okay so this one is the this one is the
total
this one is the total information about
the parity parity generator circuit
okay so this one is the truth table this
one is the truth table by using this
root
by using this truth table you can easily
understand what is the mean of parity
what is the mean of you can easily
okay suppose i am considering i am
considering the message is of 4 bit
i am considering the message is of 4 bit
4 bit means the message is of
d 0 d 1 d 2 and d3 messages of 4-bit
if the message is of 4-bit if the
message is of 4-bit so because of this
4-bit
the possible combinations will be the 16
because 2 raised to power 4 will be the
possible
combinations okay so uh by using this
4-bit we can generate 16
we can generate 16 different
combinations of message
okay so accordingly if we if we if we
want to add some extra parity bit with
this
with this message signal so we use a
parity generator circuit
so parity generator circuit uh was first
parity generator circuit form
uh form parity bit and uh after making
the parity bit it
attached the mac uh it it attach the
parity bit with this message signal
okay so after after uh attaching the
message
after attaching the parity bit with the
message signal the
the code word will be will be of five
bit
because in this 5 bit 4 bit is of
message and
one extra bit is of parity bit okay
suppose the suppose the suppose the
transmitter use the
suppose the transmitter use even parity
generator circuit
suppose the transmitter use the even
parity generator circuit
at that time it find out the number of
one in the message signal
if it if the number of one in the
message signal is in
odd is in even number so the parity bit
will be zero
if the number of one in the message
signal is in the odd number so the
parity bit will be the one
if then only you can check by you can
judge it by
checking the uh number of month it is in
odd condition or it is in even condition
so
so here in first method the number of
one is zero zero is an even number
that's why in even parity case the
parity bit will be the zero
in the second in the second message here
the number of one
is one and that is odd that's why the in
even parity case
the parity bit will be the one suppose i
am considering this message suppose i am
considering this message here you can
see
here you can see here the number of one
will be
here the number of one is three and
three is the odd number
and to represent the odd number by using
even parity
we use this one bit okay you can
understand by using uh
by using this table and uh same as
in the odd parity case in odd parity
case if the number of one is odd so it
is represented as zero if the number of
one is even so it is represented by one
it is just opposite to the even parity
keys okay
so uh we can say that if we find out if
we find out if we find out the even
parity if we find out the even parity
that is
if we find out the even parity that is
if we find out the even parity that is 0
1 that is 0 1 0 1 1
0 so after getting the even parity if we
are taking the complement then
we can easily get the odd parity okay if
we get the even parity so by taking the
complement we will
directly get the odd parity so uh if
if you want to represent it by using the
gate level so
for making for making this
representation integrate level
first we have to first we have to find
out its boolean expression
so for for finding this for finding this
calculation for finding this result
we can we can if we can take the xor
operation of these weights we can take
the xor operation of message bit because
xor having a property xor gate is having
a property that
if if there are no if the number of one
if the number of one
is if the number of one is if the number
of bits if the number of if the
if the if the bits are same if the bits
are same so that
in the case of xor gate the output will
be the
zero and if the bits are different so in
the case of
xor the output is one so by using this
property by using this coincidence
property
by using this coincidence what is the
mean of coincidence coincidence means
the bits are different only when the
bits are different so we will get the
output in the case of xor gate
so uh here um for for finding this type
of parity bit we will use this xor
property
okay so this above expression so this
above expression
so this other expression this one so
this above expression represent
the output equation output equation to
find out the
even parity this even parity is
represented by using this pe symbol
okay so p e equal to d3 xor d2 x or d1
xor d0 same as p naught and we know that
p naught is nothing but
just a complement version of even parity
okay so we can
is we can easily we can easily represent
the value of
p naught by taking the complement of
this p
so we can say p naught is nothing but a
complement of v
and what is the value of p p equals to d
3 x d 2 x or d
1 x d 0 so p not equal to
d 3 x or d 2 equal to d 1 x d and
at last we can take its complement for
finding the value of
order parity okay so uh
how can we make how can we make it's uh
how can we make it's a gate level
structure
this one is the this this one is the
it's this one it's the
gate level this one is the gate level
structure this one is the gate level
structure of
parity generator circuit this one is the
gate level structure of parity generator
circuit
here you can see that here we consider
some xor gate here we can take
here we have considered some xor gate
for finding
the even parity because even parity pe
equals the
pe is the according operation of orbit
so that's why we have considered the
exotic okay we can also we can also make
this similar operation we can also make
this similar operation by taking some
other bit
okay because uh because by using nor and
no
by using nor and nand gate we can we can
make in any type of get
gate that's why nand gate and nor gate
are known as universal gate
so we can implement this xor gate by
using any type of gate by any type of
implementation according to designer
requirement
okay this one is the so okay so this one
is the representation of
uh of even parity generator and this one
is the this
this one is the gate level
representation to generate the
odd parity generator generator or a
generation of odd parity
generator circuit this one is the
representation of odd parity generator
circuit
okay uh here you can see by expression
it is clear that
if you are taking the complement of even
parity then we will get the
odd parity okay so sim this simulate
concept is applied in
uh this gate level design also if we are
taking if you
if we take if we take the complement of
the output if you take the complement of
output then we will get the opportunity
of parity so for taking the complement
of
this output we will take uh we will take
a not gate here we will consider and not
get here
this not get provide the does not get
provide the complement of this pe
and we will get the odd parity in the
output side
okay so this one is all about so this
one is all about the theoretical portion
so this one is all about the theoretical
portion of parity generator okay you can
you can note down the theoretical
portion you can note down the
theoretical portion
that is mentioned here you can note down
the this theoretical portion that is
mentioned here
and in your in your textbook new
investment the theoretical
representation is given as this one is
the this one is the equation
this one is the equation this one is the
equation of parity generator this one is
the equation of parity generator
parity parity equals to a naught x or a
one x or a two x or a three
and so on okay this parity generator
this parity generator can be of 16 bit
can be of
32 bits according to requirement
according to the length of bitstream
okay so this one is the this one is the
theoretical portion that is represented
in your textbook
and the diagram and the circuit diagram
or the gate level structure
for this parity generator is represented
here
circuit level representation is
represented
it is represented here this one is the
this one is the gate level structure
this one is the
this one is the gate level design this
one is the gate level design
of a parity generator circuit
and the second one the second one is the
second one
the second representation is also the
second representation is
also a parity generator circuit but it
is in
some other logic this logic this logic
is known as this logic is known as
dynamic version
this logic is known as dynamic version
of
xor gate this logic is known as dynamic
version of exactly
here each exorgate here all exhaust are
here all xor gate
is mentioned by using here all exor
gates
are mentioned by using um these similar
this fasten the one combination this
simple combination here this simple
combination
is made up is make a xor gate so here
this combination is make a xor gate okay
this combination is make some uh
another x or get this combination is
make some another and
uh xor gate okay so this overall so this
overall expression so this
overall expression should so this
overall expression
is responsible responsible
to find out a xor b
xor a xor b xor
c xor d
cxordy
okay so this dynamic representation so
this dynamic representation is
responsible to get this
for input i think it is clear to all of
you i think this topic is clear
to all of you okay
now if you want to make if you want to
make a static input
structure a static structure this one
this
diagram is also also a representation of
a x or b x or c
x or d this one is the also
representation of a x or b x or c
x or d this this diagram this
representation is known as
static four input xor this diagram is
also known as
static for input xor kit okay static
four input xor gate
how how we can get how we can get this
uh
diagram we already know that we already
know that we already know that what is
the expansion what is the expansion of
ax or b what is the expansion of what is
the expansion of ax
or b if if if we express
if we if you expand this a x or b a x or
b means
a x or b means a b bar a x or b means a
b bar
plus a bar b a b bar plus a bar b
x or b means a x or b plus a x
or b uh plus a b x or same as c
x or d means c x or d plus c d x
and at last when we when we when we take
the xor of this and the xor of c x or d
then we will get we will get a boolean
we will get some
sop form equation we will get some uh
different terms
and these are these different terms
we will get these different term we will
get when we expand this
simple static circuit okay so this one
so this one is all about so this one is
all about
the representation of parity generator
circuit
so i i hope you all understand this
topic of parity generator
so thank you so much in next topic
in next lecture uh
we will study some uh other topic so
we can we can take zero one detector or
complete a topic in our next lecture
okay okay thank you so much